Rules according to u/laxhawk

So I will be updating this, as I begin to hear some good ideas...
OK So here is what I have so far, and has made for some very interesting games with my friends. Please let me know what you guys think. I have a feeling if you copy/paste this into word, it might be easier to read. The number "7" seems to be a theme throughout the book, so I kind of ran with it as you will see...
DISCLAIMER: This is an interpretation, it has been thoroughly play-tested, and a lot of canon had to be discarded to make it enjoyably playable
I was going for a kind of chess vibe, but in more directions. Please pick it apart and let me know what you think. Here we go...
Cyvasse Rules:
Objective: Capture the opponent’s fortress and kill the opposing King while having a living King yourself.
Board: Hexagonal board with 7 hexes per side. Each corner is a seaport. Pieces:
Mountain - Does not move, impassible to almost all pieces
Edit: Orthogonal movement is onto a different color, moving across the edge of one hex into another. Diagonal movement stays on the same color always, moving from one corner along the line between the spaces of 2 other colors, and onto the next space of the same color.
Rabble (rake piece)- Strength = 1, may move 1 space orthogonally, the only piece which may move onto Mountains
Light Horse (sword piece)- Strength = 2, may move any distance diagonally in 1 direction.*
Spearmen - Strength = 2, may move any distance orthogonally in 1 direction.
Archer (bow piece)- Strength = 2, may move 4 spaces orthogonally in any direction (can zig zag or turn). Cannot capture on the same turn it moves. Can capture from 1 or 2 spaces away orthogonally. Can capture over any non mountain/fortress piece.
Heavy Horse (shield piece)- Strength = 3, may move up to 2 spaces diagonally in one direction.*
Elephant (kukri-looking piece)- Strength = 3, may move 3 spaces orthogonally in one direction.
Trebuchet (3 flying stones piece)- Strength = 3, may move 2 spaces orthogonally in any direction (can zig zag or turn). Cannot capture on the same turn it moves. Can capture from 3 or 4 spaces away orthogonally, or 2 spaces away diagonally. Can capture over any piece, including Mountains and Fortresses.
Dragon - Strength = 4, may move any distance orthogonally or diagonally. Can fly over Mountains and Fortresses but not other unit pieces.
King (crown piece)- Strength = Variable. When attacking alone Strength = 1. When flanking Strength = Strength of highest attacking piece. This "Rally" effect causes units to fight more effectively when they see the king engaged in combat. Direct combat units fight more ferociously and ranged units strike more accurately to protect their leige lord. Kings may move 1 square orthogonally.
Fortress - Does not move, can be occupied by all pieces but Dragon. Occupying piece recieves a +1 bonus to strength.
*Diagonal movement may not move between two mountains set next to each other creating a mountain range.
Setup: Determine which player will play first. Players place the board between them with a corner facing both players. The board is then divided into two sides, with the middle line of the board acting as a neutral zone during setup. No pieces may be placed here during setup. Whichever player is going first will place his Fortress on his side of the board. The other player will then place his fortress on his side of the board. Both kings begin each game occupying their respective fortresses. For the duration of the setup the first player will place a single piece followed by the second player. They will alternate placing the pieces until all pieces have been laid on the board. The pieces will be placed in the following order:
Fortress and King.
7 Mountains. **
7 Rabble.
7 Pieces with Strength 2 (Light Horse, Spearmen, Archer). ***
7 Pieces with Strength 3 (Heavy Horse, Elephant, Trebuchet). ***
Dragon.
** Mountains may not be placed on seaports, nor may they completely surround a fortress or enclose a fortress so that it is only open to a seaport.
*** Maximum 3 of any individual piece Play will then begin with the player who first placed his fortress taking the first turn of the game.
Turns: A player’s turn will consist of him moving, flanking, or attacking with up to 7 individual pieces he possesses. No piece may perform more than one action (move, attack, flank) per turn.
Seaports: A piece occupying a seaport on the corner of the board may move to an adjacent corner on the next turn in place of its standard move. If an opposing piece occupies an adjacent seaport, it can only be captured from the sea if the attacking piece has a greater (not equal) strength than the target piece.
Capturing: Excepting Archers and Trebuchets, pieces capture by moving onto the hex occupied by an opposing piece of equal or lesser strength. Archer and Trebuchet pieces capture opponent pieces by declaring them captured and removing them from the board. They do not move to the space occupied by the captured piece.
Flanking: Having another piece with at least the same strength as the attacking piece be also able to target the target piece gives the attacking piece a +1 bonus to strength. The unit not involved in the capture of the target piece but which provides the bonus to the attacking piece is known as the "flanking piece". This bonus may stack in the following manner: A flanking group consists of multiple attacking pieces. The lowest strength attacking piece will be used to determine the base strength of the flanking attack. Every additional flanking piece provides a +1 bonus to the attack. This rule is intended to prevent lesser strength pieces from providing a bonus to higher strength pieces. Flanking may not be used to boost the strength of a defending piece. If a piece provides a flanking bonus to an attacking piece, it is considered to have “moved” for that turn. E.g. 2 rabble (strength 1) and a spearman (strength 2) occupy spaces adjacent to an enemy elephant (strength 3). The rabble will be used to determine the base strength of the attack due to it having the lowest strength. The second rabble and the spearman will both add a +1 bonus to the attacking rabble’s attack because they may both target the elephant resulting in an attack strength of 3, defeating the elephant. Note: The spearman may not be the attacking piece in this scenario because rabble, being of less strength than the spearman, may not provide flanking bonuses for the spearman.
Ranged Flanking: If an Archer or Trebuchet can target a piece which can also be targeted by a unit which is required to move into a captured space (any piece which is neither Archer nor Trebuchet), the Archer or Trebuchet is the flanking piece and the direct combat piece is the attacking piece with the +1 bonus to strength due to flanking. E.g. An Archer is directly behind a Light Horse which is attacking an adjacent Heavy Horse. The Light Horse must move into the space formerly occupied by the captured Heavy Horse. The Heavy Horse cannot be simply removed as if the Archer were the attacking piece. If two ranged units target the same space, one gains the +1 bonus to strength and captures the target piece as it normally would, by declaring it captured and removing it from the board.
Rallying to the King: This is a special type of flanking where units gain an attack bonus to protect their king. When the King is a flanking piece, it takes upon the strength of the attacking piece for the purpose of providing the +1 flanking bonus to the attacking piece. When a ranged piece would normally flank for the King, the King may act as the flanking piece, boosting the attack of the ranged unit, and the ranged unit and may act as the attacking piece and simply remove the target piece without moving the king into the captured unit's space.
Taking to the Hills: A Rabble piece which is currently on a Mountain piece is immune to capture by any piece other than an enemy Rabble piece. Direct combat pieces may not move onto the Mountain to capture the Rabble and ranged units may not target an alpine Rabble.
Regicide: Upon the death of a player's king, that player loses all Rabble pieces he owns. In addition, the player who has just captured the king recieves one of his opponents pieces with a strength of 2 or 3 of his choosing. He will replace this turncloak piece with one of his own and continue play as if that piece has always been in his possession. Upon the capture of any subsequent king, the opponent will receive another piece of strength 2 or 3 of his choosing in the same turncloak manner. Note: A player may possess more than 3 of any individual piece with strength 2 or 3 in this manner.
Coronation: If a player loses a king, he may crown a new king by moving a piece of strength 2 or 3 into his fortress. The player immediately replaces this piece with his king piece and this unit becomes a king forgoing all characteristics, such as strength and movement, it possessed before the coronation. Upon a coronation the player does not gain back any rabble lost upon the death of his first king, nor does the turncloak piece chosen by the opponent at the death of the previous king revert back to the original player.
Checks: A player must declare when his actions during a turn could result in the capture of an opponents king on the subsequent turn. This is done by giving the verbal warning "Check".
Victory: A player wins when three conditions are satisfied: 1. The player has a living king. 2. The player is occupying the opponents fortress with any unit piece. 3. The opponent does not have a living king.
Draw: A draw must be declared when neither player has a living king and no pieces able to enter the players fortress with strength 2 or 3 remain to either player.